I like to think of electronic structure theory in terms of doing meal prep.

As the prerequisite, one needs access to kitchen appliances like a refrigerator, freezer, and microwave. Walking and carrying things back and forth between the fridge and kitchen counter doesn't work because I need both hands on my assistive device. However, in my wheelchair, I am able to move around quickly while carrying things. In electronic structure theory, the prerequisite is seamless implementation of your ideas into a code, which is classically done by typing. I had a stroke resulting in a fine motor impairment, which suppresses the idea of me effectively typing code with the Boltzmann factor of $\lim_{\beta \to \infty} e^{-\beta E}$. Therefore, I took the initiative to learn dictation to code by voice. To do so, I joined the Talon Slack channel, which hosts the community for the free dictation software I use. Improving the software is a continuous project with everybody contributing. When ChatGPT went viral, I had the idea of interfacing with its API to correct my dictated text. Because of my speech impairment, the computer doesn't register everything perfectly, but ChatGPT solves this. For example, the speech engine might register "The quick front dogs jumps over the late dog," whereas ChatGPT would change it to what it thinks I had meant to say: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog." This integration of LLMs with dictation led people to think about other uses. For example, one user thought of translating a piece of English text into Japanese. Instead of clicking around online to get mediocre translation via Google Translate, you can select the piece of English text and say, “Model, please translate this to Japanese,” and get back a state-of-the-art translation immediately in your text editor, courtesy of ChatGPT, which is omnilingual. For most people, this means a few seconds savings, but for the disabled with difficulty using a mouse, it is priceless.

Initially, I thought I would subscribe to a meal prep service; you could subscribe to some physics courses to give you the intellectual nutrition you need. But I do not learn well traditionally; solving problem sets alone can be time-consuming, since I am still figuring out how to work with others in real time. The best academic advice I have received was last year from my option representative. I asked him if he had any insights on self-study, to which he informed me that there are two key steps: 1. you pick up a book and 2. you read it. I already had good time management skills as a student-athlete, which have been improved by rehabilitation. I know I need to devote time to improve walking or handwriting and also school, so there is no time to binge TV shows or scroll through social media; if I want to do some self-study, I will find the time to do it. Last year, I did not know what a Green's function was, and now I find myself thinking about how to move past the GW approximation in many-body perturbation theory. There were no classes to teach me this, but if you read through enough textbooks and arXiv papers, you eventually learn to work with Green’s functions. I was faced with a contour integral in my senior thesis, but I never took complex analysis. Every day for the next few weeks, I would watch YouTube videos of people doing contour integrals while on the toilet, and eventually, you learn to do one. After all, Green's functions and contour integrals taste better when they are made from scratch.

Set on cooking for myself, I needed some ingredients. Amazon Fresh delivers them, and then ChatGPT suggests recipes, with the knowledge that I am disabled with an instant pot at my disposal. I never ate steamed seafood before, but who knew it could taste so good when cooked for the perfect amount of time, as recommended by the LLM? To figure out how to cook up a program, I talk with my mentor. During meetings, the dictation advantage comes in (yes, I said advantage). I speak into existence whatever I am thinking at the moment, which makes for quick debugging. Manipulating code with my speech makes me feel like a wizard casting a spell. When working alone, I use Perplexity AI, which has been likened to if Google and Wikipedia had a baby. It does a live web search to promptly get me to the papers I need to read in response to my query. This is a big time saver, since clicking around on Google takes time.

The naive approach to meal prep might be to 1. make food over the weekends to 2. eat on the weekdays and 3. repeat. But washing up afterward takes a lot of time. Now, ChatGPT taught me that things can stay fresh in the freezer for up to 2-3 months. So I'll 1. prepare the meals in bulk, 2. freeze, 3. defrost the night before, and 4. pop in the microwave to heat and eat. You could use Python to write code that gives you the right band gap of a semiconductor. But Python has a lot of overhead, making for simple syntax, albeit with poor efficiency. With Python, it might take eons for the kitchen cleanup to run on the computer. The alternative is the C++ language, which does require you to devote a full day in the kitchen to learn its non-trivial syntax but allows you to arrive at the same meal more efficiently. As a C++ newbie, learning the syntax has been simple because GitHub Copilot is an apt translator. As you can tell, I am very interested in efficiency, so let's take this one step further. You could fry shrimp, a few portions at a time, even in one sitting to save cleanup time. However, ChatGPT taught me that steamed shrimp in the instant pot can be immaculate when done right. Consider you are cooking in a loop, and you know before runtime that you are going to cook a batch of shrimp in each iteration. Instead of frying the shrimp sequentially, you could offload the task to the graphical processing unit (GPU) to steam everything at once in parallel.

Using my expertise in meal prep, I hope to make advances in electronic structure theory.


